**Increate Software's Development Process**
###### Increate Software's Software Development Process: How it works and What you can expect ######

<div class="header-columns">
    <div class="header-name-date">

**Author:** *Timothy Greenfield*

**Date:** *5/xx/19*
	</div>
	<div class="header-author-image">

![The Author](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/increatesoftware.appspot.com/o/IncreateSoftware%2Ftim.jpg?alt=media&token=8a6dbaff-7b83-484f-9be5-b8436b737878 "The Author")
	</div>
</div>

---
![Agile Alliance](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/increatesoftware.appspot.com/o/IncreateSoftware%2Fagile-alliance.jpeg?alt=media&token=e946cfc6-3397-4e56-8ff2-544903b2b910"Agile Alliance")

#### Quick Thought on Process ####

At Increate Software we strive to use enough process to be effective
but not more than we need.  Over the years we've been involved with
projects using most software development processes used today, from
RUP to Agile.  We've seen them all work when used properly and all
fail when misunderstood.  We believe that the biggest mistake an
organization can make is to develop software with no process.  The
second biggest mistake an organization can make is making up their own
process.  This is because, today there is no need to invent your own
process,  better to use  your limited time creating product. 

#### The Outline of an Engagement ####

Our standard engagement begins with a free consultation.  During this
meeting we learn more about each other and your specific needs.  If we
choose to move forward with the engagement we will then schedule a
kickoff meeting with you and your team the objective of which is to
define enough information to begin work immediately.  After that we
will work and communicate with you at various levels of detail on a
daily, bi-weekly, and quarterly basis as described below.  

During the work you will be assigned a project manager and an
escalation POC (point of contact).  If at anytime you are unclear
about goals, progress, or status of any kind you can contact your PM
and if not satisfied with the response your escalation POC.  

As the work progress you will receive small working code updates on an
(at most) bi-weekly basis, usually sooner.  Any documentation work
products will be delivered to you in a format of your choosing or in
the output of one of our standard tools.  


## Software Development Paradigm ##
If you have already implemented a software development process we will
work within the system you have selected.  If you haven't selected a
software development process or you wish Increate Software to manage
the all aspects of the software development effort then we will
recommend a software development process based off of the SAFe Agile
framework.  


#### Time Frames ####


  * Product Road-map -- A long term product level view

  * Quarterly PIs -- A low detail plan for the next quarter of work

  * Sprint -- A high detail plan for the next 2 weeks of work

  * Daily Standup -- A daily recap of the progress, blockers, and next
steps

#### Essential Roles ####


  * Product Owner -- A person identified by your who is able to rank
competing features in order of importance and provide details of how
the product should work from a customer's perspective.


  * SCRUM Master / PM -- Increate Software will identify an individual
that will lead the day to day operations of the project, ensure good
tactical communication, and remove any roadblocks that happen during
the development.

  * Architecture / Designers -- Increate Software will provide the
necessary Architecture / Designers for your projects needs

  * Requirement Analyst -- Increate Software will provide the necessary
Requirement Analysts 

  * Developer / Testers -- Increate Software will provide the necessary
Developers / Testers for your projects needs

Note: Individuals may fill more than one role

## Consultation ##
The initial consultation is an essential meeting between primary
decision makers at your organization and Increate Software. The
objective of this meeting is share information about how we work and
what your project objectives are. Increate Software will introduce an
executive in charge of your account and record initial impressions of
the resources you may need.  We will offer you any suggestions or
impressions we have for your work and schedule next steps.

## Kickoff ##
In the time period between the initial consultation and the Kickoff
meeting Increate Software will review any written documentation
and/or industry specific information you may have

During the kickoff meeting we will introduce the Increate Team Members
to your team.  Identify essential team members and outline a
Sprint 0 which is a two week pre-sprint meant to accomplish meaningful
work while resources are getting up to speed.

During Sprint 0


## First Program Increment ##

Planning for the first Program Increment will begin and finish towards
the end of sprint 0.  During this time the high level goals of the
next quarter will be addressed as well as they are known. Our
objective is to break down each quarter into two week chunks of work
and assign a feature based goal to each chunk.  For instance if the
goal of PI 1 is to create a web app for a retail product  the goal
of Sprint 1 may be to create an app shell with minimal content.
sprint 2 may be to add real-time cloud based backend support, sprint 3 add a cloud
based payment processing system, sprint 4 integrate with a cloud based
POS system, Sprint 5 add cloud based customer support, sprint 6
conduct integration and deployment testing. 

Once we have identified the theme and high level goals of each sprint,
one Increate team member will work with you to clarify open questions
and add more details before the start of individual sprints.

When a project is of enough complexity to require multiple PIs the
next PI planning will begin in the last sprint of the current PI and
continue the process as outlined above.

## Sprints ##
Each sprint will begin with a sprint planning session.  During this
session all the known information around the theme and objectives of
the sprint will be reviewed with the full team and a detailed plan
will be created.  This is where the product owner will be asked many
questions on how the product should work and why certain features have
been requested.  Any open questions will be marked as high priority
for follow up.  At the end of the planning session each member of
the team should have be allocated to two weeks worth of work.

Every day the entire team will participate in a short meeting where
the SCRUM master asks three questions to each participant:

1.) What did you do yesterday? 
2.) What are you going to do today?
3.) Do you have any blockers?

If the SCRUM master identifies any blockers it is their priority to
resolve the problems so they team can remain productive.

At the end of a final meeting is convened where the software
development team presents the completed objectives to the product
owner as well as other deliverables such as documentation and the
results of testing.  The product owner is then asked to accept or
reject the work.  If the work is accepted it is moved to the done
column if the work is reject the required fixes are scheduled into the
next sprint for immediate resolution.

## Testing ##

All work products from Increate Software will undergo some form of
quality control.  With documentation this may be a review, with source
code it is usually some form of testing (Unit Test, Visual Test,
Integration Test, Automated Test, etc.).  In some situations code
review may take the place of a test.

## Deployment ##

We strive to never be more than one sprint away from deploying your
development code to production.  We take this into account when we
allocate work to a sprint and objectives to a PI.  We maintain a
"staging" deployment at all times so you are able to monitor the
progress of your development efforts.  And we give you the option to
push these staging deployments to production as often as you wish. In
general any release to deployment can be rolled back in the event of
unexpected behavior.  Occasionally, when the nature of the deployment is one
that is impossible, or significantly more difficult, to roll back the
product owner will be informed.

## Maintenance and Support ##

After a deployment of the product Increate Software will provide
maintenance and support of the code base at your request.
